The piercer is the most basic gun in the game possesing a regular left click shot that does from 1 to 2 damage depending on what ennemy spot was hit. this weapon also has an alt fire in the form of a charged shot that does 2 damage and pierces up to 3 ennemies. however it doesn't really have any interesting properties on its own. it is however useful when combined with other weapons lke the marksman for an ultraricoshot which can deal a lot of single target damage with the charged shot but even that is rarely used. instead people will much prefer to use the alt piercer, aka slab piercer as soon as it is unlocked in 1-4 for its higher based damage of 2 no matter what ennemy spot is hit, a more powerful piercing shot even if it still only pierces 3 ennemies and let's be honest with ourselves, it both looks and sounds way cooler than the default. To get this cooler older brother of a gun however you will need to click on all 4 stone slabs (hence the name) that are found throughout the limbo layer. in the community the default pierces is often memed on and used in the mayo% speedrun category based off of the a review of ultrakill from underthemayo, an uninformed and dumb reviewer who cries over every game that isn't doom eternal. in his ultrakill review he critisised the game for not intising players to use other guns than the default piercer as you can beat it all without having to use other guns or weapons, completely missing the point that playing that game that way is stupid, unfun and ineficient but no matter to him cause he is always right.

The marksman is often touted as the best weapon in the game for its strong pairing with other weapons with its alt fire. It is unlocked whenever the player spends the 7.5k points at the terminal to unlock it with no other requirements. the left click shot is the same as the piercer like all revolvers even with the slab marksman however that is not what is interesting about it. instead the alt fire consists in shooting coins into the air that when shot with a hitscan weapon will imediatly target the nearest ennemy weakpoint and adding a flat damange bonus. with the default gun, this shot can be split if the coins is shot right when it flashes or when it starts singing from being in the air for long enough. with the slab variant, the shots no longer split instead instantly reseting the weapon fire cooldown for all slabs revolvers if, again, the timing on the shot is correct. now flat damage bonuses don't sound very cool on their own however combined with other weapons it becomes lethal. the best example of this power is through a railcoin where you take an ennemy, toss 2 coins behind it, shoot them with your railcannon and toss the 2 last coins for a total of 27 damage, a more situational use of the marksman is with the tripleslarpwhipcoinpunch a complex strategy that can deal over 32 dmg if executed well enough, this is very good in combination with a deadcoin for the initial burst of damage which renders the damage potential of this attack virtually infinite if you are given an infinite amount of time, though the dialogue before the bossfights that would actually require such a setup give you more than enough time to deadcoin and get yourself into position for the tripleslarpwhipcoinpunch after the deadcoin has been setup enough. There is essentially no limit to the marksman coins as it only needs a hitscan shot to be used. finally, the coins can be used to conduct electricity but that will be detailed in the jumpstart section [insert link here maybe?]. 

The Sharpshooter is the last of the pistols that is unlocked in the terminal for 25k points making it harder to get when starting out as a new player because you most likely won't have that amount of points until later in the game. the left click fire just does from 1 to 2 dmg like the other weapons and the corresponding slab attack is the same as the other 2 pistols. the point of the marksman is, again in its alt fire. on the basic sharpshooter, you get 3 red shots that recharge over [insert time to charge here], these shots can bounce off walls to target the nearest ennemy weakpoint and explode projectiles creating a red explosion [also have a page about this?] dealing great damage. the downside of this attack is the spin up time as you need to have your right click pressed down to start the chargup of the gun. this spin up time is solved with the slab version which while it may only have one shot, is more powerful, doesn't require spin up time at all and stops targetting ennemy weakpoints and while this sounds bad it acutally helps in dealing more consistent damage as the shot stays straigt and it allows you to, you maybe guessed it, stack coins onto the shot to reset the total amount of bounces of the shot which makes it great at both single and multi target damage. as talked about in the marksman, the sharpshooter is a part of the most complex single weapon strategy in the game: the tripleslarpwhipcoinpunch. this attack utilises the bounce resseting property of coins to continually pierce an ennemy twice per round. to set it up, first you take a large ennemy, move back and while you are moving back, fire a coin, the moment it is fired move back forward to punch it into the ennemy infront, then aim at the ground with the slab marksman, fire a shot, look back at the ennemy and punch the coin that should have reached knee height by now, go to the side and use the grapple to juggle coins upwards, jump to punch the coin into the ennemy, slam back down and repeat until you have ran out of coins.

The core eject shotgun is unlocked in 0-3 after deafeating a swordsmachine and stealing it's shotgun to progress through the level after destroying the obstacle. it is a pretty simple weapon with the left click being a regular shotgun shot with rather large spread and the right click ability charging up an explosive core that can then be shot by any hitscan weapon in the game. it is great for single target damage and health because it makes the ennemies hit bleed a lot contrary to the pisotl/revolver that doesn't give much health. contrary to the pistol however, the left click isn't entierely useless as it posses one of, if not the best feature in the entire game, projectile boosting which alllows you to punch your own bullets when you fire the weapon. this requires somewhat good timing to get the punching windows however once learned and automated it becomes second nature. an important thing to note about this feature is that at first it was a bug due to the way the shotgun was coded as it was simply a copy and paste from the swordsmachine code whose shotgun shots you can parry to send back to explode, hakita found this so fun that he decided not to remove it and instead make it a fully fledged feature. Now for the alt fire, as i said you can shoot the core with a hitscan but there is a lot you can do with this such as shooting it with the malicious railcannon to create a nuke that deals insane amounts of damage that can one shot cerberus unfortunate enough to find themselves in the blast radius. however you sadly cannot projectile boost it even if it's a non hitscan projectile. NB: coin shots will target these if they are in the sight of the coin instead of going to the nearest ennemy but this will add damage to the explosion, this works both with a regular revolver coin shot, the electric railcannon but most fun is the malicious which will make an even stronger nuke. Now after this yapping it's time to talk about the alt core eject, aka the jackhammer core eject. this weapon like the other jackhammers gains damage based on the player speed at the moment of impact through releasing a piston, this piston can transform the core eject into a hitscan explosion, however hitscan means that it can now hit coins, this means that you can create an orbital nuke if the coins are shot properely which is a lot of fun but essentially useless in regular play and only serves as a cool thing to do in the sandbox.

the pump charge has the same wide spread as the core eject but with the the right click charing up the shotgun up to 3 times. when charged up twice you recieve no damage and get more pellets and a better projectile boost but if you charge it up thrice the shotgun will explode when shot dealing 50 damage to you but also dealing a lot of damage to the ennemies in the blast radius, this damage can be negated with a carefully timed dash to abuse the I-frames of it. the double charge plus knukleblaster can be used to one shot a maurice due to the big single target damage up close and the triple pump to gain good height for speedruns or even distance though slam storage long jump or dash jump is more useful and doesn't have the downside of the potential damage taken. the jackhammer pump functions the same with each pump making it so the impact shot deals more damage and the third pump making an explosion. overall the pump jackhammer can be better suited for single target damage though you loose out on projectile boosting and shotgun swapping depending on what other shotguns you have and in what slot it is. plus the pump jackhammer in particular requires a lot more game knowledge and anticipation than the others as it has a higher potential for damage when charged but if you don't it kinda blows but it's well the time to learn as it can be useful in the cyber grind to stun hideous masses with enough speed and a good hit on the tail.

The sawed off has actually a tighter spread compared to the other 2 shotguns with the same amount of damage. no one gives a shit about the damage of the left click though as its worth is in the right click which charges up a chainsaw that's attached on a cable. when released the chainsaw will launch off and come back to you dealing damage both ways to ennemies in its path. the good thing is that this can be rebounded with the feedbacker, adding damage to the chainsaw and this can be done infinitely many times stacking damage till the end of times. using the knukleblaster however will instead detach the projectile and this will then bounce off a few surfaces before disintegrating. this broken off verion can actually be included in sawblade trapas as it is magnetic and can also serve as a conductor for the jumpstart. the jackhammer variant is functionally the same, still keeping the more speed = more damage of the weapon but for this the blast of the left click jackhammer can also serve as a means to rebound the chainsaw after it is fired though it requires tighter timing due to the delay in the left click for these weapons.

the attractor nailgun fires, you guessed it nails, nails that can be caught in a trap using the right click magnets of the gun creating a nail trap, this however is kinda pointless and few poeple use this. most sensible people will go for the alt sawblade launcher that fires sawblades instead of puny nails. this is extremely useful for all aspects of the game as it can deal with both large groups of foder ennemies as well as bosses with a sawblade setup though the timing of the magnets needs to be on point otherwise they disintegrate and your trap is ruined. Another more recent usage of the nails, sawblade and magnet is with the jumpstart nail gun as these elements will greatly help conduct the electric shock from the weapon allowing you to instantly deal with all small ennemies in a large area.

the overheat nailgun posses a slower left click however each shot will increase the heat gauge of the weapon, allowing you to release a large amount of firery nails very quickly with a right click. the fire will increase damage to certain ennemies like the insurectionist while reducing it on ennemies such as the schism. you have 2 charges of this which each take 8 seconds to recharge. a good usage of the weapon as the burst posses large spread is to fire shoot another variant of the nailgun then quickly switch to the overheat to fire as any shot from the other types will instantly charge up the overheat to the maximum. these nails as said in the attractor nailgun section help conduct the charge from the jumpstart. as such, it can be very useful to fire out a bunch of nails using the right click in order to cover most of the arena with nails which then deal swaths of damage to all nearby ennemies. this tech is most useful in the cybergrind as you have a small window of time between waves that can allow you to unleash all these nails in peace. the alt fire replaces the large amount of nails with a single yellow blade with the right click with the left click simply releasing small and weak gray blades. the alt fire's penetration and so lifetime will depend on how much heat was in the weapon before the alt fire was released, adding another layer to a good sawblade trap.

The piercing gatorade is a very powerful hitscan weapon with infinite pierce that does 8 damage to all ennemies in its path as shown when you pick it up in 2-2. it has a universal 16 second cooldown which means that the cooldown is the same for all other variants but  the cooldown will be taken into account even if you change your weapon to another one. this cooldown is indicated in the bottom of your screen if you have the default UI layout and it is shown with the blue lightning rod that will slowly fill up over time after the gun is shot. This weapon's power is most used for railcoining as discussed in the marksman page though with the arsenal update its usage has increased slightly with the electric shock it now gives to both V1 and nearby ennemies when fired in water though this is only ever useful to know in 5-3 as the level is by default filled with water unless you for for the challenge route but even then you still have water where you can operate this tech. it doesn't posses any right click ability to speak of at it only zooms your vision, suposedly to make hiting far away targets like coins and ennemies easier for you though no one really uses it past a certain skil point as any precision aiming looses time and it would be easier to just graple anyway.

No one uses the drill. though if you may know, it's unlocked from the terminal for 100k points and serves more as a healing device for people with skill issues than anything else. it fires a non hitscan drill that laches onto ennemies and starts dealing small continuous damage to the target over 7.5 seconds giving out large amounts of blood. you can also punch the drill while it's in an ennemy to instandly deal the remaining damage and if your aim is good enough you can punch it into anothe ennemy resetting the timer and the damage starts over again. if the ennemy you fired the drill on has so little health that it is one shot by the initial damage from contact, the drill will just pierce it, killing it in the process and can attach itself to any ennemy behind it. the long cooldown for the railcannons and the very limited tech of the drill makes it useless to players with higher skill and serves more as a crutch for newer players attempting difficult bossfights, namely minos and sisiphuse prime. the drill is however metalic meaning it can conduct the jumpstart shocks. it can also serve to restrain mindflayers for the duration of the drill making them unable to teleport which is about the only use of it for high skill players but even then they would be better off railcoining the thing instead because it's an insta kill and is cooler.

The baja blast is the last railcannon you unlock costing 100k points from the terminal just like the drill. it fires a yellow hitscan explosion that does good damage in a large radius with zero damage falloff making it very good against group of fodder ennemies and single tanky like cerberi alike. the shot being hitscan means it can bounce off coins that just like with any other thing in this game will add damage to the explosion making it somewhat useful in the cybergrind though it's not the most efficient use of both the coins due to the long cooldown and the long recharge time for a kinda small explosion. real gamers will use a nuke, a nuke is when you fire a core from the core eject shotgun and then shoot it with the baja blast. this creates a large red explostion powerful enough to insta kill cerberi in the main blast zone and serverly weakening those in the secondary radius, this is mostly seen in the weezer room as it serves to quickly dispatch the 4 cerberi with ease to only have to deal with the ferryman. the explosion also sets gasoline on fire a lot faster than other explosions making it good to start getting fire damage as soon as possilbe against targets like the flesh panopticon that take extra fire damage. finally, both the base and nuke explosion can be used to propel the player large distances like in 5-1 to skip a good portion of the level, at the cost of 35 and 50 damage to the player respectively.
